#Accessibility Modern Application Design

In this paper, I am going to present how applications design their accessibility for people with visual impairment.

Apple has a lot of accessibility features. VoiceOver is one of them. 

VoiceOver is an industry leading screen reader that describes exactly what’s happening on your device. Auditory descriptions of onscreen elements help you easily navigate your screen through a Bluetooth keyboard or simple gestures on a touchscreen or trackpad. And with unique rotor gestures that function like a dial on the trackpad, you can make content such as websites a breeze to browse.

VoiceOver also gives descriptions in braille and makes working in braille easier and more efficient. You can use a refreshable braille display connected via Bluetooth to your Apple device or enter braille directly on the touchscreen using Braille Screen Input. Braille is automatically converted to text in an onscreen panel display on Mac so sighted people can follow along with VoiceOver descriptions. And with over 70 refreshable braille displays compatible with iOS and iPadOS, and over 100 with macOS, you can find the right braille experience for you.

VoiceOver Recognition is an example of new ML-based functionality. With the tool, iOS can not only describe content displayed screen, but do so with context. For example, instead of saying a scene includes a "dog, pool and ball," VoiceOver Recognition is able to intelligently parse those subjects into a "dog jumping over a pool to fetch a ball."

The application in APP Store I want to mention is Audible audio books & podcasts. It has a wide range of choices in audiobooks, exclusive podcasts and genre-bending Audible Original.

For example, I can download the audible book version of The Decision by Kevin Hart and was also narrated by Kevin Hart. 

There is a public review by Michael Aldrete saying that “if you’re an Audible customer with an iOS device, getting this free app is a no-brainer. It’s intuitive and optimized for audiobooks, it plays in the background just like the built-in iPod app, it adds useful features not in the built-in iPod app, and its design is clean, simple, tasteful. I’ve used it exclusively for audiobooks for the last four months, and it’s a great replacement for the iPod app. I plan to continue using it indefinitely. I still use the iPod app for podcasts and non-Audible audiobooks, and regularly miss Audible app features.
” 

There are some good reviews from the App Store. One reviewer said “Audible is invaluable not only for serious book lovers, but for commuters, insomniacs, ADD readers and students of all sort as well. Audible has enabled me to enjoy countless classics, fantasies, well told tales and non-fiction works that I have neither the time nor the attention span to read as text. Sometimes I find myself unable to start, continue reading or finish a book that I know I really should be reading.” We can see from his comments that you don’t have to look at the screens. You can listen to the books. That’s the people with visual impairment need. Also, there is a review “But now when I walk my dogs, run errands, go to the work-related matters, drive for a long road trip, ride my bicycle, or even work in the kitchen, I always make sure to have books to listen to.”

We can see that people love the convenience of this application. 

In conclusion, Apple and ios developers put a lot of effort and state of art options to design the accessible features for visual impairment people.

